General
All project work in IND320 will result in personal hand-ins and online apps.
A Jupyter Notebook run locally on your computer (later with access to online and local databases).
This will be your basic development and documentation platform.
Must include a brief description of AI usage.
Must include a 300-500-word log describing the compulsory work (including both Jupyter Notebook and Streamlit experience).
Must include links to your public GitHub repository and Streamlit app (see below) for the compulsory work.
Document headings should be clear and usable for navigation during development.
All code blocks must include enough comments to be understandable and reproducible if someone inherits your project.
All code blocks must be run before an export to PDF so the messages and plots are shown. In addition, add the .ipynb file to the GitHub repository where you have your streamlit project.
A Streamlit app running from https://[yourproject].streamlit.app/.
This will be an online version of the project, accessing data that has been exported to CSV format (later, also an online database).
The code, hosted at GitHub, must include relevant comments from the Jupyter Notebook and further comments regarding Streamlit usage.
There are four parts in the project work, building on each other and resulting in a final portfolio and app to be presented at the end of the semester.
Co-operation is applauded, and the use of AI tools is encouraged.
Tasks
GitHub and Streamlit.app accounts
Prepare a GitHub account and create a public repository for your project work. Addresses at streamlit.app must be unique, so include your GitHub user name or similar in the repository name. Report the Streamlit address and GitHub repository address in the Jupyter Notebook.
Log in to using your GitHub account.share.streamlit.io Links to an external page.
Create a minimum working example of a Streamlit app, push it to GitHub, and ensure it works at https://[yourproject].streamlit.app/
Jupyter Notebook
Read the supplied CSV file using Pandas.
Print its contents in a relevant way.
Plot each column separately.
Plot all columns together. Consider how to make this natural, given that the scales are different.
Remember to fill in the log and AI mentioned in the General section above.
Streamlit app
Create a Streamlit app including:
requirements.txt (for package dependencies)
Four pages (with dummy headers and test contents for now)
The front/home page should have a sidebar menu with navigation options to the other pages.
On the second page:
A table showing the imported data (see below). Use the row-wise LineChartColumn() to display the first month of the data series. There should be one row in the table for each column of the imported data.
On the third page:
A plot of the imported data (see below), including header, axis titles and other relevant formatting.
A drop-down menu (st.selectbox) choosing any single column in the CSV or all columns together.
A selection slider (st.select_slider) to select a subset of the months. Defaults should be the first month.
Data should be read from a local CSV file (open-meteo-subset.csv, available in the Files here in Canvas), using caching for app speed.
Evaluation
The uploaded PDF, GitHub repository, and Streamlit app will be assessed according to the recipe above.
By one fellow student in peer review.
By Liland or Kjæreng.
TA/Teacher's feedback will be short and instructive regarding points of improvement and fulfillment of requirements.
Final fulfillment of the course will be based on the four rounds of hand-ins seen as a whole